Christopher Chu
2/5/2018
CS 540 
The breakthroughs that are considered as "Artificial Intelligence" are truly groundbreaking and has benefited the lives of society and humanity over the past half-century. 
The Stanford report provided many interesting and realistic perspectives and predictions on the state of Artificial Intelligence. My challenge is that using machine learning is not the most reliable and effective way of trying to diagnose patients of diseases or solve a criminal case due to unreliable data and bias introduced to datasets.
The article mentions that in the future, doctors will effectively utilize machine learning algorithms as well as their expertise to help predict the disease of an ill patient. While this approach appears to be intuitively sound, there are many issues to deal with. One of the close acquaintances of mine worked on very similar algorithms for a medical company, and he stated that it was very difficult to accurately predict patient’s conditions, especially if there were uncommon. The x-ray and images that the algorithm analyzes and processes data with are very general and can lead to very general assumptions. The labelling of the datasets for patient illnesses can be inaccurate, since human physicians provide the images and patients can be misdiagnosed, therefore introducing faulty information to the dataset. Finally, a change of lighting of x-ray images can prompt the neural network to incorrectly predict a patient illness, which is often the difference between life and death. 
The article also states that Artificial Intelligence algorithms can be used to effectively predict who was the proponent of illegal activity in certain law enforcement cases. There are several faulty attributes for this prediction. Although AI might help to both automate and accelerate the time of a court case, humans still are the ones who code the attributes for the algorithms to distinguish, and they might accidently introduce bias (racial, sexual, etc.) to the dataset, or the A.I. algorithm extracts features that would normally be biased and unimportant for a court case. 
Despite my objections in the previous two areas stated above, the Stanford One Hundred Year study on Artificial Intelligence Provides an insightful depiction on the state of AI in North America by 2030.
